---
title: "ITIL4 Study Guide"
layout: post
date: 2023-11-30
feature_image: images/
tags: [certification, itil, studyguide]
---

This is my writeup from a lab to image and create a hash of a disk, verify the integrity of the disk, and use Foremost to recover deleted files. 



<!--more-->

<br>
<div align="center">.・。.・゜✭・.・✫・゜・。. </div>
<br>

## Table of Contents

1. [Service Management Overview](#routers)
2. [Guiding Principles](#network-topologies)
3. [
4. 


<br>
<div align="center">.・。.・゜✭・.・✫・゜・。. </div>
<br>

key concepts, 4 dimensions, SVS, guiding principles, sv chain, most important practices, other practices

┌──❀*̥˚───────────────────────────────────────────────❀*̥˚─┐
### Service Management
✧. ┊ ⁭ [Key Terms](#ೃ⁀-key-terms) ✧ [4 Dimensions](#ೃ⁀-4-dimensions) ✧ [Value Streams & Processes](#ೃ⁀-value-streams-and-processes) ✧ [Organizations & People](#ೃ⁀-organizations-and-people) ✧ [Information & Technology](#ೃ⁀-information-and-technology) ✧ [Partners & Suppliers](#ೃ⁀-partners-and-suppliers) ✧ [SVS](#ೃ⁀-service-value-system) ⁭ ⁭┊ .✧

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Key Terms

**Value** - the perceived benefits, usefulness, or importance of something; co-created
**Recipients** define value
**Organization** - persons/groups with own functions and responsibilities with objectives
**Service Management** - set of specialized organizational capabilities to enable value to customers through services
**Customer** - defines requiremetnes for services
**User** - uses the service
**Sponsor** - authorizes budget for service
**Supplier** - supplies services to organization (external)
**Service** - enable value co-creation by giving outcomes customers want without them having to manage costs/risks
**Product** - configuration of resources that can be valuable to customers
**Service Offering** - mix of services and products sold to customer, includes 
    **Goods** - ownership given to customer
    **Access to resources** - resources customer can use 
    **Service Actions** - actions that service provider does for customer

**Output** - tangible/intangible deliverable of an activity
**Outcome** - result for stakeholder enabled by 1+ outputs
**Cost** - can be removed or imposed on customer (value proposition, or price for service consumption)
**Risk** - uncertainty of outcome (good opportunity; bad hazard)
**Utility** - something fit for purpose/ service does what it should 
**Warranty** - something fit for use/ service does it good enough (availbility, capacity, security, continuity)

Value is utility, warranty, and perception.

<br>
<div align="center">.・。.・゜✭・.・✫・゜・。. </div>
<br>

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ 4 Dimensions
**VOIP** - factors that can be influenced by organization internally. Stands for Value streams and processes, Organizations and people, Information and technology, and Parnters and suppliers.

**PESTLE** - external factors that must be considered. Stands for political, economical, social, technological, legal, and environmental. 

<br>
<div align="center">.・。.・゜✭・.・✫・゜・。. </div>
<br>

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Value Streams and Processes
- activities the organization should undertake
- things you should do to ensure/co-create value to stakeholders
- value stream mapping


<br>
<div align="center">.・。.・゜✭・.・✫・゜・。. </div>
<br>

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Organizations and People
- how people/human resources are set up
- organizational structures like how teams are set up, etc
- decision making habits
- staffing and skill requirements
- leadership

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Information and Technology
- tools and information needed to deliver value to customers
- how information is managed and stored, etc
- technology and innovation
- CMDB

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Partners and Suppliers
- external help and vendors
- good vendor selection 
- service integration

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Service Value System
- Guiding principles
- Governance
- Service value chain
- Practices
- Continual improvement

SVS converts opportunity and demand into value for customers by applying service management. 
