---
title: "ITIL4 Study Guide"
layout: post
date: 2023-11-23
feature_image: images/itil4.png
tags: [certification, itil, studyguide]
---

This is my study guide for the ITIL v.4 certification exam by Axelos.

ITIL 4 put simply is a service management certification over an operating model for the creation, delivery, and continual improvement of technological products or services.


<!--more-->

<br>
<div align="center">.・。.・゜✭・.・✫・゜・。. </div>
<br>

## Table of Contents

1. [Service Management Overview](#service-management)
2. [Guiding Principles](#guiding-principles)
3. [SVS and SVC](#service-value-system--service-value-chain)
4. 


<br>
<div align="center">.・。.・゜✭・.・✫・゜・。. </div>
<br>

key concepts, 4 dimensions, SVS, guiding principles, sv chain, most important practices, other practices

┌──❀*̥˚───────────────────────────────────────────────❀*̥˚─┐
### Service Management
✧. ┊ ⁭ [Key Terms](#ೃ⁀-key-terms) ✧ [4 Dimensions](#ೃ⁀-4-dimensions) ✧ [Value Streams & Processes](#ೃ⁀-value-streams-and-processes) ✧ [Organizations & People](#ೃ⁀-organizations-and-people) ✧ [Information & Technology](#ೃ⁀-information-and-technology) ✧ [Partners & Suppliers](#ೃ⁀-partners-and-suppliers) ⁭ ⁭┊ .✧

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Key Terms

**Value** - the perceived benefits, usefulness, or importance of something; co-created
**Recipients** define value
**Organization** - persons/groups with own functions and responsibilities with objectives
**Service Management** - set of specialized organizational capabilities to enable value to customers through services
**Customer** - defines requiremetnes for services
**User** - uses the service
**Sponsor** - authorizes budget for service
**Supplier** - supplies services to organization (external)
**Service** - enable value co-creation by giving outcomes customers want without them having to manage costs/risks
**Product** - configuration of resources that can be valuable to customers
**Service Offering** - mix of services and products sold to customer, includes 
    **Goods** - ownership given to customer
    **Access to resources** - resources customer can use 
    **Service Actions** - actions that service provider does for customer

**Output** - tangible/intangible deliverable of an activity
**Outcome** - result for stakeholder enabled by 1+ outputs
**Cost** - can be removed or imposed on customer (value proposition, or price for service consumption)
**Risk** - uncertainty of outcome (good opportunity; bad hazard)
**Utility** - something fit for purpose/ service does what it should 
**Warranty** - something fit for use/ service does it good enough (availbility, capacity, security, continuity)

Value is utility, warranty, and perception.

<br>
<div align="center">.・。.・゜✭・.・✫・゜・。. </div>
<br>

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ 4 Dimensions
**VOIP** - factors that can be influenced by organization internally. Stands for Value streams and processes, Organizations and people, Information and technology, and Parnters and suppliers.

**PESTLE** - external factors that must be considered. Stands for political, economical, social, technological, legal, and environmental. 

<br>
<div align="center">.・。.・゜✭・.・✫・゜・。. </div>
<br>

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Value Streams and Processes
- activities the organization should undertake
- things you should do to ensure/co-create value to stakeholders
- value stream mapping


<br>
<div align="center">.・。.・゜✭・.・✫・゜・。. </div>
<br>

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Organizations and People
- how people/human resources are set up
- organizational structures like how teams are set up, etc
- decision making habits
- staffing and skill requirements
- leadership

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Information and Technology
- tools and information needed to deliver value to customers
- how information is managed and stored, etc
- technology and innovation
- CMDB

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Partners and Suppliers
- external help and vendors
- good vendor selection 
- service integration


└───❀*̥˚───────────────────────────────────────────────❀*̥˚┘

<br>
<div align="center">.・。.・゜✭・.・✫・゜・。. </div>
<br>


┌──❀*̥˚───────────────────────────────────────────────❀*̥˚─┐
### Guiding Principles
✧. ┊ ⁭ [Focus on Value](#ೃ⁀-focus-on-value) ✧ [Start Where You Are](#ೃ⁀-start-where-you-are) ✧ [Progress Iteratively](#ೃ⁀-progress-iteratively-with-feedback) ✧ [Collaborate](#ೃ⁀-collaborate-and-promote-visiblity) ✧ [Think Holistically](#ೃ⁀-think-and-work-holistically) ✧ [Keep It Simple](#ೃ⁀-keep-it-simple-and-practical) ✧ [Optimize and Automate](#ೃ⁀-optimize-and-automate) ⁭ ⁭┊ .✧

Recommendations that guide organizations 

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Focus on Value
- everything should directly or indirectly be valuable to stakeholders

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Start Where You Are
- reuse existing resources instead of starting from scratch

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Progress Iteratively with Feedback
- small steps (iterative)
- learn from feedback

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Collaborate and Promote Visibility
- involving the right people at the right time to make right decisions

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Think and Work Holistically
- big picture
- components are connected to other components, so think about the effects 

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Keep it Simple and Practical
- don't overcomplicate things 
- least steps 
- outcome based thinking

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Optimize and Automate
- maximize the value of human work
- automate after optimizing 
- DevOps

└───❀*̥˚───────────────────────────────────────────────❀*̥˚┘

<br>
<div align="center">.・。.・゜✭・.・✫・゜・。. </div>
<br>

┌──❀*̥˚───────────────────────────────────────────────❀*̥˚─┐
### Service Value System & Service Value Chain
✧. ┊ ⁭ [SVS](#ೃ⁀-service-value-system) ✧ [SVC](#ೃ⁀-service-value-chain) ⁭ ⁭┊ .✧

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Service Value System
- Guiding principles
- Governance
- Service value chain
- Practices
- Continual improvement

SVS converts opportunity and demand into value for customers by applying service management. 


<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Service Value Chain
- uses value streams, which are steps that organization takes to co-create value with customers/stakeholders
- transforms demand into actual value

- PIEDOD (Plan, Improvement, Engage, Design & Transition, Obtain & Build, Deliver & Support
- plan to make sure you share understanding of the direction/vision
- continually improve products and services
- engage and understand needs and demands of stakeholder
- design and ensure services meet stakeholder needs
- obtain and make sure you have components (people, licenses, hardware, etc) needed to be available 
- SLA conform service delivery

- an operating model
- can be used to map value streams 


└───❀*̥˚───────────────────────────────────────────────❀*̥˚┘

<br>
<div align="center">.・。.・゜✭・.・✫・゜・。. </div>
<br>

┌──❀*̥˚───────────────────────────────────────────────❀*̥˚─┐
### Most Important Practices
✧. ┊ ⁭ [SVS](#ೃ⁀-service-value-system) ✧ [SVC](#ೃ⁀-service-value-chain) ⁭ ⁭┊ .✧

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Intro
-  practice: set of organizational resources to perform work or accomplish objective
- general management, service management, and technical management practices 
General Management Practices: Continual Improvement
Service Management Practices: Change Enablement, Incident Management, Problem Management, Service Desk, Service Level Management, Service Request Management

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Continual Improvement
- happens everywhere like SVS, SVC, etc
- reprioritization when new ideas are added 
- everyone's responsibility, may have Continual Improvement Team
- all 4 dimensions should be considered

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Change Enablement
- aka change management
- maximize number of successful changes by using proper risk assessment, minimize negative impact of failed changes
- Types: standard, normal, emergency
- standard: pre-authorized, low cost and risk, can be Service Requests
- normal
- emergency: rapid action

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Incident Management
- minimize negative impact of incidents by restoring normal operation asap
**Incident** - unplanned interruption or reduced quality
- incidents should be logged, prioritized, and managed 
**Swarming** - multiple people on an issue 
- swarming for fast solutions 

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Problem Management
- reduce likelihood of recurring incidents 
- eliminating root causes
**Problem** - unknown cause of incident
**Known error** - problem with known root cause, and no solution
**Workaround** - alternative solution
- phases: problem identification, problem control, error control

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Service Desk
- capture demand for incidents and service requests 
- 

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Service Level Management

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ Service Request Management

<br>
####  ೃ⁀➷ 



└───❀*̥˚───────────────────────────────────────────────❀*̥˚┘

<br>
<div align="center">.・。.・゜✭・.・✫・゜・。. </div>
<br>
